Interpretation Exercise and Polling Exercise 2 (#2386)
makerdao/community: governance-exercises/Polling Exercise #2 Response.md

> #### My Interpretation of the MIPs and Plan

Reviewer: As a sidenote. These are explicitly polling exercises. I appreciate that you've concluded there is no need for a poll here, but just for the sake of practice, you could have included one based on a different set of assumptions.

[MIP101 2.6.6](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP101#2-6-6-aligned-delegate-privacy) does not direct a facilitator to draft a poll in this instance. It states that "If there’s clear evidence or significant suspicion that the identity of an AD has been revealed, a FacilitatorDAO **must immediately derecognize the AD**." then goes on to add "FacilitatorDAOs **must err on the side of caution** and act in case there is **any kind of real possibility that the privacy of an AD is compromised**.". 

> The wording could be improved, but in order to "err on the side of caution" an off-boarding by the Facilitator would unfortunately be the appropriate response here. This is consistent with [previous off-boardings](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/governance-scope-actions-pertaining-to-delegates-in-light-of-mip102c2-sp7-approval/20946) of ADs, which were not polled.

Reviewer: I think this response is fairly justified. I think part of the assumption of the exercise is that it's not clear whether the materials constitute 'significant suspicion' or not. 

The reason previous instances were not polled is because the ADs involved didn't contest the decision, and because the materials were not made public. While I agree there are commonalities, there are also important differences that mean those precedents are not entirely applicable here.

> Additionally, the requirement for the AD's identity to remain hidden would make it impossible to guarantee a fair poll fair. Voters cannot be presented with all the evidence without risking the reveal of Clive's identity.

Reviewer: The exercise states the materials have already been made public.

#### Message to Clive

```
Author: You
Date: Monday 24th July 2023
```

> Unfortunately, the Atlas is quite clear here. Facilitators are required to "err on the side of caution" if there is a real possibility that an Aligned Delegate's identity has been compromised. I don't enjoy this part of the job, but the MIPs are quite clear on the subject.

Reviewer: Mm, so I know saying 'I don't enjoy this part of the job' is undoubtably true, it's also a bad thing to say in this situation. Given what Clive's dealing with, they don't give a fuck if you're not having a good time, and bringing it up has a good chance of making them more hostile. 

The reason for this is that it's a way of denying responsibility for the action you are taking. You're essentially communicating: "The MIPs say this, so I need to do it." This is true in some ways, but not in others. As we've seen, the MIPs/scopes are very ambiguous. You do have the power to do otherwise in this situation. Even given _ironclad_ scopes, you could choose to resign rather than being a party to the decision. I recognize that those options are not ones most would expect a reasonable person to take, but they do exist, and so you are making a choice. 

Given this is the case, don't make your discomfort Clive's problem. Communicate clearly and neutrally your decision, and the reasons for it. I'd suggest something like:

```suggestion
Unfortunately, the Atlas is quite clear here. Facilitators are required to "err on the side of caution" if there is a real possibility that an Aligned Delegate's identity has been compromised. In my judgement, Diane's materials constitute significant suspicion.
```

Reviewer: In the assumption you've gone with, you'd likely want to speak to Clive privately, and avoid making a forum thread in the first place.

#### Message to Diane

```
Author: You
Date: Monday 24th July 2023
```

> No poll will be needed. Would you be willing to publicly confirm your request for a whistleblower bounty and provide the address to send the bounty to?

Reviewer: Good catch that they should confirm it publicly. Otherwise opens up a lot of risk later if they claim to never have received the funds.

#### Forum Response

```
Author: You
Date: Monday 24th July 2023
```

[Notice] Aligned Delegate Derecognition of Clive

Following concerns raised by a community member and further review of the situation, Codeknight, as Governance Scope Facilitator, is derecognizing AD Clive per the rules of the Atlas and MIP113. In the interest of transparency, I will summarize the evidence as best I can while protecting Clive's identity.

> [Anonymized summary of evidence]

Reviewer: The 'evidence' is already public, and is specifically stated to not be hard evidence of anything.
